# Danger Plugin Toolbox

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [Unreleased]

### Fixed

- Fixed false positives in `jsTestShortcuts`.

## [2.0.0] - 2023-2-3

### Breaking

- Drop support for Node versions lower than 16.

### Added

- Add support for tsx TypeScript files in `jsConsoleCommands`, `jsLocalEslintChange`, `jsRecommendAsyncAwait` and `jsTestShortcuts`.

## [1.31.0] - 2022-4-14

### Added

- Added the option `notInCommit` in [`commonFileContains`](docs/validations.md#commonfilecontains) to allow running the validation for files that are not included in the commit.

## [1.30.0] - 2021-4-16

### Added

- The regular expressions defined in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage) that check merges, now also identify remote branch merges.

## [1.29.0] - 2020-7-17

### Added

- Added the option `ignorePathRegex` in [`jsConsoleCommands`](docs/validations.md#jsconsolecommands) to ignore the files/folders that match it.

### Changed

- Use `<br>` instead of `\n` to format new lines in the messages generated by some validations.

## [1.28.0] - 2020-7-11

### Added

- New validation [`jsOutOfSyncDeps`](docs/validations.md#jsoutofsyncdeps) to check if `dependencies` and `devDependencies` in `package.json` and `package-lock.json` are in sync.

## [1.27.0] - 2020-6-6

### Changed

- [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) now shows the messages of the commits that triggered the rule. This behaviour can be changed using `hideCommits` configuration.

## [1.26.0] - 2020-5-15

### Added

- Added the regular expression `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_OR_COMMON_EXCEPTIONS_REGEX` (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) to allow the most common exceptions (merge branch, merge pull request, revert or dependency bump).

### Changed

- The regular expressions defined in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage) now allow any character after the Jira ticket, not only a space or a colon.
- The option `ignoreTests` in [`jsRecommendAsyncAwait`](docs/validations.md#jsrecommendasyncawait) will also ignore files in `__tests__` and `tests` folders.

## [1.25.2] - 2020-4-12

### Fixed

- Fix [`commonPrDescriptionContribution`](docs/validations.md#commonprdescriptioncontribution) so it does not fail when the description is `null` or `undefined`.

## [1.25.1] - 2020-4-12

### Fixed

- Fix [`commonPrDescription`](docs/validations.md#commonprdescription) so it does not fail when the description is `null` or `undefined`.

## [1.25.0] - 2020-4-5

### Changed

- [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings) show a warning when the file does not exist (instead of failing).

### Added

- Added the configuration option `ignoreNonExistingFile` to [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings) to not show a warning when the file does not exist.

## [1.24.0] - 2020-4-4

### Added

- Added the configuration option `ignoreRegex` to [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings) to ignore the lines that match that regex.

## [1.23.0] - 2020-4-4

### Changed

- The option `ignoreTests` in [`jsRecommendAsyncAwait`](docs/validations.md#jsrecommendasyncawait) will also ignore files in `__mocks__` folders.

## [1.22.1] - 2020-3-20

### Fixed

- Fixed the configuration option `ignoredAuthors` in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)).

## [1.22.0] - 2020-3-20

### Added

- Added the configuration option `ignoredAuthors` to [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) to allow ignoring commits authored by the provided users (useful to ignore bots, for example).

## [1.21.0] - 2020-3-16

### Added

- Added the regular expressions `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REVERT_REGEX` and `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_NO_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REVERT_REGEX` (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) to allow revert commits also.

## [1.20.0] - 2020-3-14

### Changed

- Change the regular expressions `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_REGEX`, `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REGEX`, `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_NO_JIRA_REGEX` and `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_NO_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REGEX` to allow `NOJIRA`, `NO JIRA` and a colon after the square brackets (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)).

## [1.19.1] - 2020-3-6

### Fixed

- Fix the regular expressions exported in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage).

## [1.19.0] - 2020-3-6

### Added

- Added the configuration option `reverse` in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage). This option changes the behaviour, showing the message when some commit message matches the provided regular expression.
- Added the regular expressions `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_NO_JIRA_REGEX` and `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_NO_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REGEX` (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) to match only the string `NO-JIRA` and not a Jira ticket.

## [1.18.0] - 2020-2-28

### Added

- New option `ignoreTests` added to [`jsRecommendAsyncAwait`](docs/validations.md#jsrecommendasyncawait). This option can be used to ignore test files (so using Promises will be allowed in test files).
- Added the utilities [`fileRemovedLines`](docs/utilities.md#fileremovedlines), [`fileRemovedLineMatch`](docs/utilities.md#fileremovedlinematch), [`fileRemovedLineNumbers`](docs/utilities.md#fileremovedlinenumbers), [`structuredFileRemovedLines`](docs/utilities.md#structuredfileremovedlines) and [`structuredFileRemovedLineMatches`](docs/utilities.md#structuredfileremovedlinematches).

## [1.17.1] - 2019-12-17

### Fixed

- Added missing export for `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REGEX`.

## [1.17.0] - 2019-12-17

### Added

- Added the regular expression `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_OR_MERGE_REGEX` (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)) to allow merge commits also when expecting a Jira ticket.

## [1.16.0] - 2019-12-15

### Added

- New validation [`reactBackpackSubcomponents`](docs/validations.md#reactbackpacksubcomponents) to recommend using Backpack's sub-components (like [BpkButtonPrimary instead of BpkButton](https://github.com/Skyscanner/backpack/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#2019-10-22---add-individual-exports-for-buttons)) in React components to reduce the amount of unused CSS and JS included.

### Fixed

- Fix in [`jsLockfile`](docs/validations.md#jslockfile) to avoid showing a warning if `dependencies` or `devDependencies` do not exist in `package.json`.

## [1.15.0] - 2019-7-24

### Added

- New validation [`commonAddedLinesContains`](docs/validations.md#commonaddedlinescontains) to check if the provided regex matches any added line in the files.

### Changed

- Change the regular expression `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_REGEX` to allow a colon after the Jira ticket (used in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)).

## [1.14.0] - 2019-6-26

### Added

- Allow using `markdown` as log function in [`commonContribution`](docs/validations.md#commoncontribution) validation.

## [1.13.1] - 2019-6-12

### Fixed

- Fix in [`committedFilesGrep`](docs/utilities.md#committedfilesgrep) and [`inCommitGrep`](docs/utilities.md#incommitgrep) to avoid crashing when the list of committed files contains a `null` value.

## [1.13.0] - 2019-5-18

### Changed

- Improved [`jsLockfile`](docs/validations.md#jslockfile) validation: now it checks that `dependencies` or `devDependencies` have changed in `package.json` (it used to only check if `package.json` was changed).

### Added

- New utility [`fileAddedLineNumbers`](docs/utilities.md#fileaddedlinenumbers) to get an array with the line number of all added lines.
- New validation [`reactBackpackCssModules`](docs/validations.md#reactbackpackcssmodules) to recommend using [Backpack's `cssModules` utility](https://github.com/Skyscanner/backpack/tree/master/packages/bpk-react-utils#cssmodulesjs) in React components.

## [1.12.0] - 2019-5-10

### Added

- Added option to add the comments inline in the PR's for [`cssBackpackVariables`](docs/validations.md#cssbackpackvariables), [`cssLocalStylelintChange`](docs/validations.md#csslocalstylelintchange), [`cssRemOverEm`](docs/validations.md#cssremoverem), [`jsConsoleCommands`](docs/validations.md#jsconsolecommands), [`jsLocalEslintChange`](docs/validations.md#jslocaleslintchange), [`jsRecommendAsyncAwait`](docs/validations.md#jsrecommendasyncawait) and [`jsTestShortcuts`](docs/validations.md#jstestshortcuts).

## [1.11.0] - 2019-5-7

### Fixed

- Fixed link to contribution guide in [`commonContributingGuide`](docs/validations.md#commoncontributingguide).

### Added

- New utility [`structuredFileAddedLines`](docs/utilities.md#structuredfileaddedlines) to get an object with the added line numbers and its content.
- New utility [`structuredFileAddedLineMatches`](docs/utilities.md#structuredfileaddedlinematches) to get the list of line numbers of the added lines matching a pattern.

## [1.10.0] - 2019-5-3

### Fixed

- Improved [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings) validation.

### Added

- Allow customising the message in [`commonPrDescription`](docs/validations.md#commonprdescription).
- Allow customising the message in [`commonPrDescriptionContribution`](docs/validations.md#commonprdescriptioncontribution).

## [1.9.0] - 2019-5-2

### Added

- Allow customising the message in [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings).

## [1.8.0] - 2019-4-23

### Added

- New validation [`reactRecommendClassProperties`](docs/validations.md#reactrecommendclassproperties) to recommend using class properties to define `state` and PropTypes in React components.

## [1.7.0] - 2019-4-17

### Added

- New validation [`jsRecommendAsyncAwait`](docs/validations.md#jsrecommendasyncawait) to recommend using Async/Await instead of Promises.

### Changed

- Change the message `COMMON_COMMIT_MESSAGE_JIRA_MSG` (this is the suggested message to use when commits do not include a Jira ticket in [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage)).

## [1.6.0] - 2019-3-26

### Added

- The regex to check for a Jira ticket in a commit message now allows not using brackets around the ticket id (so `ABC-123 My commit message` will now work). The regex is also case insensitive now.

## [1.5.1] - 2019-3-14

### Fixed

- Improve `jsTestShortcuts` check (make sure it's a function call).

## [1.5.0] - 2019-3-14

### Added

- The validation [`cssBackpackVariables`](docs/validations.md#cssbackpackvariables) now also checks if `$bpk-one-pixel-rem` is used. This can hide the usage of `px` units.
- Allow `logType` in rules with multiple log types. This will be used as default value for any log type not defined explicitly.

### Fixed

- Improve `jsTestShortcuts` check (make sure it's a function call).

## [1.4.0] - 2018-11-25

### Added

- Add support for TypeScript files in `jsConsoleCommands`, `jsLocalEslintChange` and `jsTestShortcuts`.

## [1.3.1] - 2018-11-13

### Fixed

- Fix messages in `commonFileContains` validation.

## [1.3.0] - 2018-11-13

### Added

- New validation [`commonFileWarnings`](docs/validations.md#commonfilewarnings) to list all file lines containing the word `warning` (useful to surface linting/test warnings).
- New validation [`commonFileContains`](docs/validations.md#commonfilecontains) to make sure the file contents match a regex.

## [1.2.0] - 2018-10-31

### Added

- New utility [`linkToTargetRepo`](docs/utilities.md#linktotargetrepo) to generate links to files in the target repository.
- New utility [`linkToSourceRepo`](docs/utilities.md#linktosourcerepo) to generate links to files in the source repository.
- New utility [`targetRepoUrl`](docs/utilities.md#targetrepourl) containing the target repository url.
- New utility [`sourceRepoUrl`](docs/utilities.md#sourcerepourl) containing the source repository url.

## [1.1.0] - 2018-10-29

### Added

- New validation [`commonCommitMessage`](docs/validations.md#commoncommitmessage) to make sure all commit messages match a regex (like ensuring a ticked id is added to all commit messages).

## [1.0.0] - 2018-10-23

### Added

- Initial release.
